## Question 1
- (a) No. If its corresponding finite automata has a loop, then it must be infinite.
- (b) No. A is regular iff A has a NFA.
- (c) No. The transition function of a NFA maps a pair <state, symble> to a set of states (i.e. the possible next states). So the codomain of it is the power set of Q.
- (d) No. Strings over Σ ={0,1} having an odd number of 0’s can't be regular according to pumping lemma. It's a CFL.
- (e) Yes. Regular languages are trivially CFLs, so they have CNF forms.
- (f) No. Not all CFLs have a DPDA.
- (g) No. TM must guarantee halting.
- (h) Yes. Multi-tape Turing machines are known to have the same power as single-tape Turing machines.
- (i) No. Each language is a subset of Σ*, and Σ* is countably infinite. The set of all languages is the power set of a countably infinite set (which is the set of all subsets of Σ*), is uncountable.
- (j) No. A is no harder than B, but we can't infer B's computability from A.

## Question 3
- (a|(b(a|b)\*a))b\*
- (aa|b)a\*bb\*

## Question 4
- Get rid of all epsilon productions

  S→QaQ|aQ|Qa|a
  
  Q→aQb|bQa|QQ|ab|ba
  
- Get rid of all productions where RHS is one variable

- Replace every production that is too long by shorter productions

  S→QC|aQ|Qa|a
  
  Q→Cb|bD|QQ|ab|ba
  
  C→aQ
  
  D→Qa
  
- Move all terminals to productions where RHS is one terminal

  S→QC|AQ|QA|a
  
  Q→CB|BD|QQ|AB|BA
  
  C→AQ
  
  D→QA
  
  A→a
  
  B→b

## Question 5
- (a)
  
S→AC

A→aAb|ab|ε

C→CC|c|ε

- (b) {a<sup>i</sup>b<sup>j</sup>c<sup>k</sup> | i=j=k and i,j,k ≥0}
- (c) No. Counter example is L<sub>1</sub>∩L<sub>2</sub>. By pumping lemma, if L<sub>1</sub>∩L<sub>2</sub> is also a CFL, there'll be some uvwxy in L<sub>1</sub>∩L<sub>2</sub>, s.t. uv<sup>i</sup>wx<sup>i</sup>y are also in L<sub>1</sub>∩L<sub>2</sub>. But any choice for vx will break the rule i=j=k. 

## Question 7
- (a) {a<sup>i</sup>b<sup>j</sup> | 2i=j and i≥1}
- (b) S→abb|aSbb
- (c) Yes. L(B) = {a<sup>i</sup>b<sup>j</sup> | 2i≥j and i≥1}

## Question 8
- (a) accept w if w∈A, reject w if w ∉ A
- (b) Any non-trivial property of Turing machines is undecidable.
Define T to be the set of all Turing machines descriptions, i.e., T = { M : M is a Turing machine}
Let P be a subset of T such that
1. P ≠ ∅, i.e., there exists a Turing machine M such that M ∈ P,
2. P is a proper subset of T , i.e., there exists a Turing machine N such that N ∉ P,
3. for any two Turing machines M1 and M2 with L(M1) = L(M2),
(a) either both M1 and M2 are in P or
(b) none of M1 and M2 is in P.

Then the language P is undecidable.
- (c) "Accepts string 101" is a non-trivial property, so A is unecidable according to the Rice's theorem.