## Section A
### Question A.1
- a. The Waterfall model ensures a structured, sequential approach with thorough documentation and review at each stage, critical for safety-critical systems like autonomous vehicles to minimize errors and risks.

- b. Revisiting the Software Specification stage can lead to delays and cost overruns, as changes may require rework in design, implementation, and testing, increasing the project’s time and budget.

- c. 
  - Change Control: Evaluate and limit the scope of changes.
  - Version Control: Maintain updated and clear documentation.
  - Impact Analysis: Assess how changes affect other stages.
  - Stakeholder Communication: Ensure alignment on updates.
  - Contingency Planning: Include buffer time for refinements.
### Question A.2
- Scrum complies with "Customer collaboration over contract negotiation" through sprint reviews, where stakeholders and customers provide feedback to guide development, ensuring solutions meet their needs.


- The acceptance criteria for "Change UI Language" are missing:

    Outcome details (e.g., what happens after selecting a language).

    Negative scenarios (e.g., no languages available).

    Edge conditions (e.g., invalid selection or canceling the dialog).
### Question A.3
- a. Exception, Post-condition
- b. The second actor in the requirement is the credit card center, as it validates the credit card information and personal identifier provided by the user. This is an external system that interacts with the ticket-issuing system.
### Question A.4
- Risk identification: identify possible project, product, and business risks
- Risk analysis: assess the likelihood and consequences of these risks
- Risk planning: plans to address the risk, either by avoiding it or minimizing its effects on the project
- Risk monitoring: regularly assess the risk and your plans for risk mitigation and revise these when you learn more about the risk
### Question A.5
- The design should provide a complete picture of the software, addressing the data, functional, and behavioral domains from an implementation perspective
- Low Coupling: The module has minimal dependencies on other modules, allowing it to function without needing to interact heavily with external components. This means that changes in one module are less likely to impact others
- High Cohesion: The module is focused on a single, well-defined task or responsibility, ensuring that its internal elements work together closely and contribute to a common purpose.
### Question A.6
- Development testing, where the system is tested during development to discover bugs and defects.
- Release testing, where a separate testing team test a complete version of the system before it is released to users.
- User testing, where users or potential users of a system test the system in their own environment.
## Section B
### Question B.1
```mermaid
classDiagram
  class Category {
    -name
  }
  class Product {
    -name
    -price
  }
  class HistorySellingPrice {
    -price
  }
  class Media {
  }
  class Video {
    -file
  }
  class Photo {
    -file
  }
  Category "1" o-- "*" Product
  Product "1" *-- "*" HistorySellingPrice
  Product "1" *-- "1" Media
  Media "1" *-- "*" Video
  Media "1" *-- "*" Photo
```
### Question B.3

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    caller->>+StudentController: register(name, age)
    StudentController->>+Student: new Student()
    Student->>-StudentController: Student student
    StudentController->>Student: setName(name)
    StudentController->>Student: setAge(age)
    StudentController->>+studentList: add(student)
    studentList->>-StudentController: success:boolean
    StudentController->>-caller: success:boolean
```